---
Title: TEv2 MVE
---

# 1. TEv2 Minimal Viable Example (using Github Pages/Jekyll)

The [repo from which this website has been generated](https://github.com/tno-terminology-design/tev2-mve) is a [minimal viable example (MVE)](mve@) that includes the minimal stuff for using the [TEv2 tools](@tev2) and demonstrating its effects, which are:

- highlighting of the [terms](@tev2) that it uses.
  Basically, this boils down to converting so-called [TermRefs](@tev2)
  to emphasized texts that have popups showing the definition of the
  [terms](@tev2) that are referenced.

- creation of a [glossary](hrg@tev2) for the [terms](@tev2)
  that are defined within the scope of the repo.

So, this repo contains the documentation that tells you 
'[How to use TEv2 in a Github Pages/Jekyll context](https://tno-terminology-design.github.io/tev2-mve)'.
Thus, this site documents itself.

## 1.1. Installation of TEv2 Tools

[TEv2 tools](@tev2) are typically deployed in a context where it is clear how
the documentation is going to be rendered and presented to users.
So, the first prerequisite is that such a context exists.

In this case, the context is a GitHub repo that is configured for using Pages.
You can create one for yourself by follwing the descriptions in the 
[GitHub Pages documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/pages).

The [TEv2 tools](@tev2) can be used:

- within the context of a local repo (on your own computer).
  This requires them to be [installed locally](how-to/install-tev2-tools-locally.md).
- within the context of the GitHub Actions that create the static Pages website.
  This requires [some steps to be added](how-to/add-tev2-tools-to-actions-script.md) 
  to the GitHub Actions workflow that you use to generate the static Pages website.

## 1.2. TEv2 Files and Directories

Before you can actually use the tools, you must have a number of 
directories and files in place.
They are typically located in the same directory where you maintain
the files of your documentation.
As this [MVE](@) has chosen `docs` as the directory for the documentation,
this is also the directory where [TEv2](@tev2) directories and files will be put.

Here is a breakdown of the [TEv2](@tev2) specific directories and files:

~~~
├── saf.yaml
├── terms
│   ├── mve.md
│   ├── workflow-file.md
│   └── <etc.>
├── mrgs
├── glossary.md
└── tev2-config.yaml
~~~

- `saf.yaml` is the [scope administration file](saf@tev2).
  It provides a centralized record of the resources in the documentation context,
  facilitating their access by the various [TEv2 tools](@tev2).
  Its contents [must be provided by the user](how-to/saf.md).
  Its name may not be changed.

- `terms` is a directory that contains files with [curated texts](@tev2), i.e., 
  markdown files that document the terminology defined within this [scope](@tev2). 
  Its name MUST match the content of the field `curatedir` in the file [`saf.yaml`](saf@tev2).
  This directory, and the files it contains, must be created by users.
  To illustrate this, the figure above shows two such files.

- `mrgs` is a directory that contains [machine readable glossaries](@tev2). 
  Its name matches the content of the field `glossarydir` in the file
  [`saf.yaml`](saf@tev2).
  This directory is automatically generated by the tools.
  Users should not touch it, nor its contents, unless they know what they are doing.
  
- `glossary.md` is a markdown file that we have created to show how a
  [glossary](hrg@tev2) can be defined, simply by putting a [marker](mrg-ref@tev2)
  in such a file. 
  The [hrgt tool](hrgt@tev2) will convert such markers in the [glossary](@tev2) 
  of the [terms](@tev2) whose descriptions are in the `terms` directory.

- `tev2-configs.yaml` is a [TEv2 configuration file](@tev2).
  It is recommended to give it a name that allows you to immediately see that
  it is a [TEv2 configuration file](@tev2).
  Its contents [must be provided and maintained by the user](how-to/config-files.md). Its name can be anything.

## 1.3. Running the TEv2 tools

The [TEv2 tools](@tev2) can be run 

- **as part of a GitHub workflow**.
  This requires that you have [added the TEv2 steps to the workflow file](how-to/add-tev2-tools-to-actions-script.md).
  The tools will be called as is specified in this [workflow file](@).
  In this repo, they will be called whenever a commit or push is done
  to the `main` branch of the repo.

- **locally, i.e. on a local copy of the repo**. 
  In this case, you must have [installed the tools locally](how-to/install-tev2-tools-locally.md), and verified that you can run them
  within the `docs` directory.

A typical workflow would consist of the following steps:

1. If the documentation relies on [terminologies](@tev2) 
   that are [curated](@tev2) elsewhere, the first step consist of
   **[importing glossaries from elsewhere](how-to/import-mrgs.md)**. 
   The result of this is that such glossaries are then imported,
   and stored in the directory as specified in the [SAF](@tev2),
   which in our case would be `/docs/mrgs`.
   If such isn't the case, this step can be skipped.

2. The next step consists of 
   **[generating one's own (machine readable) glossaries](how-to/generate-mrgs.md)**. 
   The resulting [MRGs](@tev2) are stored in the same directory as the
   imported [MRGs](@tev2), as specified in the [SAF](@tev2).
   For this [MVE](@) that would be `/docs/mrgs`.

3. The documentation may have been set up to include one or more
   [glossaries](hrg@tev2).
   If this is the case, the next step is to
   **[generate the (human readable) glossaries](how-to/generate-hrgs.md)**.
   The result of this is every so-called [MRGRef](@tev2) marker
   that is found in any of the processed files, will be replaced
   with a [(human readable) glossary](hrg@tev2).
   The [MVE glossary](glossary.md) shows the result of this step for this [MVE](@).

4. The documentation would contain so-called [TermRefs](@tev2).
   **[Resolving such TermRefs](how-to/resolve-termrefs.md)**
   is the final step that needs to take place.
   The result of this is that every so-called [TermRef](@tev2)
   that is found in any of the processed files, will be replaced 
   with a [renderable ref](@tev2).
   In our case, this means it will be replaced such that the text will
   be highlighed (enhanced), will link to the file that provides further
   documentation, and will show a popup containing its definition.

   In our case, a term such as [TermRef](@tev2) is an imported term,
   whereas [MVE](@) is one defined by ourselves. 
   You can see how they are highlighed, are clickable, and show popups.
